KOP Item resources (#151)
wpilibsuite/frc-docs: source/docs/hardware/control/vmx-pi.rst

VMX-pi includes a navX-Technology Inertial Measurement Unit (IMU), and includes 6 sensors which measure inertial motion:  3 accelerometers measuring acceleration (in units of `Standard Gravity <https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Standard_gravity>`_ [g]) and 3 gyroscopes measuring `Rotational Speed <https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Rotational_speed>`_ (in units of degrees per second).

Additionally, through a process called “sensor fusion”, VMX-pi intelligently combines the 6-axis inertial sensing data to create a measurement of relative 3D orientation.

.. image:: images/vmx-pi/yaw-pitch-roll.jpg

IMUs are typically used to measure aircraft orientation, but are also very useful for controlling a robot.  IMUs measure rotation of an object around the Z-axis (yaw), the X-axis (pitch) and the Y-axis (roll).

Pitch and roll angles are absolute (tied to the earth’s surface); 0 degrees means “flat” with respect to the earth.

However, IMU Yaw angles are **relative** - not tied to any direction (like North on a compass).  Therefore, your robot application must decide where 0 degrees is.  Usually, FRC robots treat the “head” of the field (the direction driver’s face) as 0 degrees.

> For more information, please visit the `VMX-pi Terminology page <https://pdocs.kauailabs.com/vmx-pi/support/terminology/>`_.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
For more information, please visit the `VMX-pi Terminology page <https://pdocs.kauailabs.com/vmx-pi/guidance/terminology/>`_.
```

Digital Compass and Attitude/Heading Reference System (AHRS)
^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^

VMX-pi’s navX-Technology also includes 3 magnetometer sensors, which measure magnetic fields (in units of Tesla).  By measuring the earth’s magnetic field, VMX-pi provides a digital compass – which is a different way of measuring the Z (“Yaw”) axis.

.. image:: images/vmx-pi/compass.jpg

And by intelligently fusing the digital compass with the gyroscope/accelerometer data, VMX-pi can create a measurement of absolute 3D orientation.

> .. note:: Earth’s magnetic field is actually very weak when compared to the magnetic field generated by a nearby motor; for this reason it can be difficult to get accurate digital compass readings on a FRC robot.  For this reason, using the VMX-pi AHRS is an advanced feature best suited for teams who have the time to learn about `how to calibrate the VMX-pi digital compass <https://vmx-pi.kauailabs.com/guidance/magnetometer-calibration/>`_ and also how to deal with magnetic disturbances.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
.. note:: Earth’s magnetic field is actually very weak when compared to the magnetic field generated by a nearby motor; for this reason it can be difficult to get accurate digital compass readings on a FRC robot.  For this reason, using the VMX-pi AHRS is an advanced feature best suited for teams who have the time to learn about `how to calibrate the VMX-pi digital compass <https://pdocs.kauailabs.com/vmx-pi/guidance/magnetometer-calibration/>`_ and also how to deal with magnetic disturbances.
```

.. image:: images/vmx-pi/vmxpi-ethernet.jpg

If connecting VMX-pi to the roboRIO to communicate data over Ethernet, connect an Ethernet cable to the RJ45 (Ethernet) connector on your Raspberry Pi connected to the VMX-pi.  Connect the other end to the robot network, either on the WiFi radio (e.g.,OpenMesh) or a separate ethernet switch connected to the radio.

CAN (if accessing CAN bus data)
^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^

.. image:: images/vmx-pi/vmxpi-can.jpg

If connecting VMX-pi to the roboRIO to acquire CAN data, connect a CAN cable (as supplied in the Kit of Parts) to the Weidmuller connector on the VMX-pi.  The use of ferrules (the red plastic portion of these connectors is visible in the photo above) is highly recommended to ensure a secure electrical connection.

Enclosure
^^^^^^^^^

.. image:: images/vmx-pi/vmxpi-enclosure.jpg

An enclosure is recommended to protect the VMX-pi and Raspberry Pi circuit boards from excessive handling, `"swarf" <https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Swarf>`_, `electrostatic discharge (ESD) <https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Electrostatic_discharge>`_ and other elements that can potentially damage them.

> Visit the `VMX-pi Enclosure page <http://vmx-pi.kauailabs.com/installation/creating-an-enclosure/>`_ to either purchase an enclosure for VMX-pi or to download a 3D-printable design file.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Visit the `VMX-pi Enclosure page <https://pdocs.kauailabs.com/vmx-pi/installation/creating-an-enclosure/>`_ to either purchase an enclosure for VMX-pi or to download a 3D-printable design file.
```

RoboRIO Software Installation
^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^

To access VMX-pi IMU data from your roboRIO robot application, install the `VMX-pi Libraries for roboRIO <https://pdocs.kauailabs.com/vmx-pi/software/libraries/>`_.

If using NetworkTables to exchange data between VMX-pi and roboRIO, NetworkTables support on the roboRIO is already installed with the FRC software releases; on the Raspberry Pi, NetworkTables is available (for C++, Java and Python) on the VMX-rtk SD Card Image.

Using VMX-pi
------------

Example roboRIO robot examples for accessing the VMX-pi’s navX-technology IMU data are available in C++, Java and Python.

Example programs for developing vision processing for Raspberry Pi will be available online at the KauaiLabs website soon after kickoff in the “Raspberry Pi” example section.

> Visit the `VMX-pi Examples page <http://navx-mxp.kauailabs.com/examples/>`_ for a description of each example and details on how to use it with your chosen programming language.  This page also includes other examples of how to develop robot applications when using VMX-pi as a robot controller.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Visit the `VMX-pi Examples page <https://pdocs.kauailabs.com/navx-mxp/examples/>`_ for a description of each example and details on how to use it with your chosen programming language.  This page also includes other examples of how to develop robot applications when using VMX-pi as a robot controller.
```

Learning More
-------------

.. image:: images/vmx-pi/navx-ui.jpg

To learn more about how the VMX-pi navX-technology IMU works, you can use `navXUI <https://pdocs.kauailabs.com/vmx-pi/software/tools/navx-ui/>`_, which runs on a Windows PC connected via USB to the VMX-pi and demonstrates all of the VMX-pi features. navXUI also provides a way to save VMX-pi data to a file so you can analyze it. navXUI can even run simultaneously with your roboRIO robot application.

Best Practices
--------------

> If you want to get the most out of your VMX-pi and achieve results similar to those of the top FRC teams, the VMX-pi `Best Practices <http://vmx-pi.kauailabs.com/guidance/best-practices/>`_ is just for you.  These guidelines will help you avoid common pitfalls and achieve the highest possible accuracy.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
If you want to get the most out of your VMX-pi and achieve results similar to those of the top FRC teams, the VMX-pi `Best Practices <https://pdocs.kauailabs.com/vmx-pi/guidance/best-practices/
>`_ is just for you.  These guidelines will help you avoid common pitfalls and achieve the highest possible accuracy.
```

Getting Help
------------

> If you have trouble with VMX-pi, please visit the `VMX-pi support page <http://vmx-pi.kauailabs.com/support/>`_; you can join the VMX-pi newsgroup or contact technical support for help.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
If you have trouble with VMX-pi, please visit the `VMX-pi support page <https://pdocs.kauailabs.com/vmx-pi/support/>`_; you can join the VMX-pi newsgroup or contact technical support for help.
```

VMX-pi Vision/Motion Processor & Robotics Controller
====================================================

.. image:: images/vmx-pi/kauai-labs-logo.png

> When combined with a Raspberry Pi (purchased separately), the VMX-pi

Reviewer: Put on same line, unless there's a reason for this?
